We're gonna talk a little
bit about function modeling.
Let's hop over to functions.
Doo doo doo doo doo doo.
Let's see what to get myself to start.
Thank you, Brian.
That's very nice to
start off with nothing.
Okay, so [LAUGH] so we just did
function modeling with validations.
Did anybody catch that?
We said, I'm going to,
instead of modeling a type of data and
the data inside that type,
I'm gonna model a function.
We're gonna call it run, and
then we're able to combine functions.
So let's talk about
that a little bit more.
Let's give ourself some functions, my
favorite ones, toUpper, actually I should
probably just bring in rammed or
something but it's fine, x to UpperCase.
All right, and other favorite function
exclaimed we'll just do x concat,
[LAUGH]
there we go.
And then let's see what else,
should be fine.
Okay, so what we're trying to do
here is take these functions and
let's say I want to combine them and
compose them in different ways.
I want to model them and
do interesting things with them.
Function doesn't give
you any methods on it.
So what we could do is
actually make function.
And that takes some, which I'm gonna
call run and run we'll expose that.
So we can actually run it.
Let's just start by doing a concat.
Because we've just worked with monoids.
We're just fresh from that.
So if I want to concat two functions,
how would I do that?
Well, I have another function.
And I'll call other.run.
And I know I have my run.
And I have to run the function
to get the value out.
And then I concat the value that
the other one gave me, right?
But it have to be closed,
I have to return new function,
if I'm combining two functions
I have to return a function.
So we'll start there,
we'll start with function.
And hey, look, function takes an argument.
Now all of a sudden have an x,
out of nowhere, we just have an x now,
isn't that neat?
I get that passed in.
So now I can run my other one with x.
Remember my function with x,
and I can concat the results.
That is cool.
Does anybody have any questions on that?
That's exactly what we
just did with validations.
And what's interesting
about this is concating
two functions says I have two boxes.
You can think of functions as a factor,
I think we can formally make it a factor,
let's do that.
Now, let's map f over our function.
So you always keep it back in the box,
get an x, run it on the x, we get a value.
And we run f on that value.
And now we have a factor, right?
Run is gonna return us a value,
function you can think of as a box holding
a value and you have to run it to get
the value and then we run f on it.
So where I was going
with that is is we have
these ways to combine functions,
map is just a composition on a function.
And concat says run both and
then combine the results.
I'm holding this thing and just like
the intuition says from all the other
examples, I'll open up my box and
concat what's inside.
So, the box example kind of breaks down
when we're talking about functions because
you don't really think of functions
as a box but, you can I guess.
So let's do function to upper and
we'll concat that with
its function exclaim.
All right, great.
And then we'll run that with a fp sux.
All right [LAUGH].
All right, no function modelling zero.
Okay, so what happened here?
The first one UpperCase
it returned a string.
And since strings a semigroup or
a monoid, we concat it.
We concatt it with the result
of running the other one.
Interesting.
So we've run two functions and
we've concacted the results.
I could do something where
we put them in an arrays and
we'll get the arrays of the results and
so on.
But this is starting to form the basis
of what we call the reader monad.
We're actually modeling a function itself
and if we map over it, let's do this.
Let's map over the result,
which is this pull number now, right?
And then we'll whatever, take a slice
of the first couple slice, three.
Does that work?
All right, cool.
So we're able to map over the result
of combining these two functions.
And then, we run it on that.
So, what is it?
What does it mean to
make function a monad?
What would that mean?
Monads talk about nesting, right?
So we'd say, I have a function
within a function, right?
Each function takes some argument,
right, and this takes a y.
We have an x and a y here now.
We wanna flatten these
two into one function.
That's what monads do.
So, let's write that.
See what happens here.
So we have chain to chain F.
And what's gonna happen is we need
to return a function on the outside.
And the reason for that is well,
we could just see, if I just decided
to run my function,
I don't even have an x to run it with.
That doesn't work.
[LAUGH] So I have to start by saying okay,
but function it's gonna take an x, right.
And then I'll run my function with the x.
And we are saying okay, just like map,
I want to call f on that, right.
Pass the value of running my
function into the next function.
Maybe it's helpful before we go
any further to see what it means.
So let's say I am going to chain
to upper with another function, so
we get our UpperCase upper, and then I'm
gonna return another function, right?
That does exclaim on, oops,
I spelled it wrong on the upper.
And let's see, this takes a y and
I guess it just doesn't do
anything with it right now.
We'll figure out what
to do with this y but
we have another argument,
that's kind of the point.
We just have this y out of nowhere.
So let's get this to work and then we'll
kind of look at what's happening here.
So high, all right, so
we're in this thing, we ran the function,
we got another function out and
we actually have to run that function now,
right?
With, say the x again and
see what happens there.
So let's go ahead and
play through this one.
See what happens and we get high cool,